10 Ways Neo Can Help Platform Teams Today (#16132)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/10-things-you-can-do-with-neo/index.md

---

> title: "10 Things You Can Do With Pulumi Neo"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "10 Things You Can Do With Our Infrastructure Agent, Neo"
```

^^^ better for folks who don't yet know what Neo is?

Author: makes sense! I'll leave the meta image though if that is good with you

date: 2025-10-06
draft: false
meta_desc: "Discover 10 concrete ways Pulumi Neo helps automate infrastructure tasks while keeping humans in control."
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - meagan-cojocar
tags:
    - ai
    - platform-engineering
    - pulumi-neo
    - aws

social:

>     twitter: "10 concrete workflows you can use Pulumi Neo for: auto-fix AWS Config violations, upgrade Lambda runtimes across accounts, generate infrastructure templates, respond to CVEs. Neo generates PRs, not production changes."

Reviewer: Similar to my title suggestion, maybe "... you can use our new infrastructure agent, Neo, for: ..."

<!--more-->

## 1. Explain infrastructure in plain English

Neo answers questions about your infrastructure instantly, turning complex resource relationships into conversational insights (and diagrams!).

No more digging through AWS consoles or parsing state files to understand what you have deployed. Neo speaks your language about your infrastructure. Ask questions like *"What databases do we have?"*, *"Which S3 buckets aren't encrypted?"*, or *"Show me all resources in us-east-1"* and get immediate, accurate answers.

## 2. Generate infrastructure code from natural language

Neo turns plain English descriptions into production-ready Pulumi code, eliminating the blank-page problem that slows down new projects.

Instead of starting from scratch or hunting through documentation, describe what you need and Neo generates the complete infrastructure. Ask Neo: *"Create a serverless API with PostgreSQL database and Redis cache on AWS"* and it produces fully configured resources with proper networking, security groups, and IAM policies.

![Neo generating infrastructure code for a serverless API with PostgreSQL and Redis](neo-postgresql-redis.png)

> ## 3. Assist with Terraform to Pulumi migration

Reviewer 2: Technically this needs the TF state too if you want a clean preview

> Neo analyzes existing Terraform code and generates equivalent Pulumi programs, accelerating migration without starting from scratch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Neo analyzes existing Terraform code and state to generate the equivalent Pulumi program, accelerating migration without starting from scratch.
```
